# CryptoClustering

* Module 19 Challenge - This assignment compares two methods: directly applying the K-means model to scaled data and using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to reduce data to 3 components before clustering.

## Setup

Main Branch: `Crypto_Clustering.ipynb` The main Jupyter Notebook file containing clustering analysis.

Resources Folder: `crypto_market_data.csv` The original dataset used for the clustering analysis.

Images Folder: Contains 7 PNG files of all the plots and composites created in the Jupyter Notebook.

## What are the best values for k?

* The best value for k is `4`, as it provides the most distinct elbow with a similar drop and pattern. The standard scaled K-means has slightly higher `y` values, but `4` is the distinct optimal k.

## What is the total explained variance of the principal components?

* The answer is 89.5% with the components `([0.3719856 , 0.34700813, 0.17603793])`.

## After visually analyzing the cluster analysis results, what's the impact of using fewer features to cluster using K-Means?

* The principal component plot is tightly grouped within `y` values (-2, 2) and `x` values (1,1). The 3 distinct outliers are theta-token, celsisus-degree-token and ethlend.

* The standard clusters cover a larger area and are less patterened. `y` values (-2, 2.5) and `x` values (-2,2). Group 0 largest impact from the 24 hour `x` value. Group 2 positively impacted by the 7 day `y` values. Group 0 less 7 day impact and is closest to (0, 0).

* Below are the 3 tokens most appropriately shown as outliers from the overall patterns in the PCA cluster plot. Only the ethlend is more accurately captured by the principal components method.

## coin_id = ethlend

* Clusters = 3

* PCA Scatter Plot: `PCA1` = 8.089 and `PCA2` = -3.897.

* Standard Scatter Plot: `price_change_percentage_24h` = -4.981 and `price_change_percentage_7d` = -0.04581.

* Comparison: The higher `PCA1` value reflects significant variance in the first principal componenent.
* Original data `ethlend` saw a -13.53% `(24h)` and +4.22% `(7d)`.

* Method: Both PCA and standard plots show ethlend as an outlier.

## coin_id = celsisus-degree-token

* Clusters = 1

* PCA Scatter Plot: `PCA1` = 4.792 and `PCA2` = 6.768.

* Standard Scatter Plot: `price_change_percentage_24h` = 1.046 and `price_change_percentage_7d` = -0.618.

* Comparison: The higher `PCA2` shows 2nd component has a greater impact than `PCA1`. 
* Original data +2.51% `(24h)` and +0.6% `(7d)`*.

* Method: In the case of `celsisus-degree-token`, Standard plot is a better predictor of true value.

## coin_id = theta token

* Clusters = 0

* PCA Scatter Plot: `PCA1` = 2.677 and `PCA2` = -0.01395.

* Standard Scatter Plot: `price_change_percentage_24h` = -1.612 and `price_change_percentage_7d` = -1.682.

* Comparison: `PCA1` has a greater impact that `PCA2`. Standard scatter has almost exact same outcome for both measurements.
* Original data: -4.56% `(24h)`  and -6.09% `(7d)`

* Method: In the case of `theta token` the standard scatter plot more actuartely predicts the true value.

## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License v3.0. For more details, see the [LICENSE](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html) file.
